[Music]
why Stradivarius violins are so
expensive they are said to be among the
best violins in the world even if you're
not a musician chances are you've heard
the name Stradivarius many violinists
dream of getting a chance to play an
instrument made by the greatest violin
maker of all time but why are they so
expensive nowadays a beginners violin
can cost anywhere between 300 and $1,000
Stradivarius violins sell for millions
of dollars
keep watching to discover why musicians
and collectors are willing to pay such a
high price for these instruments but
first don't forget to click the
subscribe button and turn on
notifications to be one of the first
bright ciders to watch our videos
Stradivarius violins were created by
Antonio Stradivari he was born in 1644
and opened up his violin shop in his
hometown of cremona Italy but he didn't
make a master violin on his first
attempt he began making violins while he
was still a pupil of the Italian violin
maker
Nicolo Amati at first his violins were
like his mentor's small solidly
constructed and with a light yellow
varnish but he didn't stop there he
painstakingly experimented for years and
for a while settled on constructing
larger violins covered in a deeper
colored varnish in the 1700s Stradivari
decided to improve his style yet again
and had what is referred to as his
golden period a time when he created the
best work of his life he started
covering his violins in the
characteristic orange brown varnish and
used excellent wood including that of
the maple tree the violins produced
during this period are so masterful that
several have individual names and
reputations for example the Betts violin
produced in 1704 is now in the United
States Library of Congress and the
Allard violin produced in 1715 is
considered the best stratovarius in
existence
in case you didn't know Stradivari also
produced other stringed instruments
cellos harps guitars and violas but it
was his method of making violins that
others would try to replicate for
centuries Stradivari set the standard
for how a violin should sound how it
should look and how it should be played
in his Italian home he continued to
produce instruments until he died at the
age of 93 having made an estimated 1100
instruments of those 1100 around 650
survived today
550 of which are violins many are still
in use over 250 years after his passing
these violins are found all over the
world in 2014 the Kreutzer Stradivari
violin was found in a closet in the home
of US heiress Hoggett clark so it seems
that there are still chances of more of
his instruments being found Stradivarius
violins produce powerful and penetrating
tones they are said to have brightness
expressiveness and brilliance terms that
describe sound quality there's also a
widely held belief that unlike any other
violence Strads can project their sound
to the room but seem relatively quiet to
the musician playing in general they are
believed to have better sound quality
than new violence researchers have tried
to learn the secret that makes stratts
the best violins in the world and the
theories are many some say that
Stradivarius violins are so superior
because of the wood used the size of the
F holes in the design or the varnish
some theories claim that the secret is
in the uniform density of the two wooden
panels that form the body of the violin
others say that the secret is a chemical
treatment that's designed to kill wood
worm and fungi a study conducted in 2015
by MIT showed that the secret to the
violins deep acoustic sound is in the
design and the size of the F holes on
the front of the violin with more
elongated holes comes a more sound
Stradivari made the holes longer and
larger than any other
violins before his time scientists have
tried to figure out if all the hype and
myth around Strads is valid the violins
have been run through CT scans and
x-rays and have been the subjects of
multiple studies in 2017 a study
published in the Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences tested how
subjects reacted to the sound produced
by new violins compared to strats they
were specifically testing a
characteristic you learned about earlier
Strads can project sound while seeming
quiet to the player right next to the
instrument unfortunately for the
Stradivarius brand the study couldn't
find any evidence that Strads could
perform like that the consensus was that
when the violins were projecting sound
the best they also sounded much louder
to the performer several of the
performers actually thought that the
projection of sound was better in new
violins another study was conducted in
2012 and led by French acoustics
researcher Claudia France and she tested
17 professional violinists they were
blindfolded and asked to play three
kinds of violins Stradivarius violins
violins from another master Italian
violin maker called Guarneri and new
violence out of the 17 subjects 7
couldn't tell the difference 7 chose
incorrectly and only 3 got it right even
if science says there's not much of a
difference between Strads and newer
violins many people still have strong
preferences for the strat and have
performed emotional bonds with the
instrument the history the antique
element the rareness and the myth of
Stradivarius instruments make them the
most revered in the world despite what
science has to say
many of the violins left are some of the
most expensive in the world they have
been sold at private auctions to banks
charities and people who must love music
a whole lot to pay such a hefty price
take a quick guess at how much the most
expensive Stradivarius was sold for
consider that a violin played at
intermediate level costs about $1,500
the most expensive Stradivarius was sold
for more than fifteen million dollars
but not all Stradivarius violins are so
expensive some are Val
at around two million dollars some of
these expensive violins are also loan to
musicians imagine the pressure of
holding an instrument worth two million
dollars in your hands some of the best
musicians in the world have had a chance
to play a Stradivarius including an
Akiko Myers Joshua Bell and yo-yo ma
with the instruments being so highly
prized there are a lot of instances of
people who claim to be selling genuine
Stradivarius instruments that turned out
to be fakes in the 19th century
thousands of violins were made with the
Stradivarius label even when they were
not original Stradivarius instruments
the violin makers didn't want to fool
people though it was actually common
practice to attach a Stradivarius label
to say that the inexpensive violin was
modeled after Stradivarius violins thus
people would know that they weren't
buying an original but a violin of
similar design unfortunately for us
today that means that a Stradivarius
label isn't a reliable way of
distinguishing genuine Stradivarius
violins from fakes it takes an
experienced eye and years of experience
with thousands of instruments to tell if
a Stradivarius is genuine or not it's
important to make that distinction since
at any one time there are 15 to 20
Stradivarius instruments being sold
through the main dealers in London New
York Paris and Rome the Stradivarius
market is small but very competitive and
the violins are expected to double in
price every decade the Messiah violin
which Stradivari built during his golden
period in 1716 is believed to be the
most immaculate strat left it has never
been played and has an estimated value
of 20 million dollars the Messiah has
not been sold and is currently on
display at the Ashmolean Museum in
England but if it is bought through a
dealer at that price it would make it
the most expensive violin of all time
would you bright ciders prefer to own an
expensive Stradivarius instrument or an
inexpensive newer violin if they were
shown to have similar sound quality tell
us in the comment section share this
video with your musician friends and
don't forget to subscribe to stay
on the bright side of life
[Music]